In this project I'll be working with the Diabetes Health Indicators Dataset which can be found at www.kaggle.com/datasets/alexteboul/diabetes-health-indicators-dataset/.  Specifically, I will be looking at the diabetes_binary_health_indicators_BRFSS2015.csv data.  There are many variables in this dataset, but for the purposes of this project, I will be limiting the scope to the following variables: Diabetes_binary, HighBP, HighChol, Smoker, PhysActivity, Age, and BMI.  Each of these variables is categorical except for BMI.  Diabetes_binary is the response variable, where 0 represents no diabetes and 1 represents prediabetes or diabetes.  The rest of the variables are predictors of Diabetes_binary, where HighBP at level 0 indicates no high blood pressure and 1 indicates high blood pressure, HighChol at level 0 indicates no high cholesterol and 1 indicates high cholesterol, Smoker at level 0 indicates that the person hasn't smoked at least 100 cigarettes in their life and 1 indicates that they have, and PhysActivity at level 0 indicates no physical activity in the last 30 days (not including a job) and 1 indicates physical activity.  Age is a 13 level categorical variable, from younger to older age groups in ascending order.  Lastly, BMI is a numeric variable that represents the body mass index.

The purpose of this exploratory data analysis is to summarize the response variable and three of the predictors (both univariate and bivariate analyses will be performed): BMI, PhysActivity, and Age.  These three predictors were chosen as they are commonly cited as some of the most important risk factors of developing type II diabetes.  For example, this article says, "Being overweight, being physically inactive, [and] getting older... have long been identified as important risk factors for T2DM" (https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10518250/).  In this project, the ultimate goal of modeling is to find the model that best predicts Diabetes_binary.  This will be achieved by analyzing relationships between variables and ultimately minimizing some metric (log loss).

The purpose of the modeling file is to develop and compare predictive models for diabetes status using key predictors.  By evaluating logistic regression models, classification trees, and random forests with cross-validated log loss, I aim to identify the best performing model to accurately predict diabetes status.  First I will identify the best performing model in each category using cross-validation, and then I will fit a final model in each category using the whole training set.  Finally, I will evaluate each of the three "best" models on the testing set and declare a winner.

